Ragnarok (v12)

[ragnarok]

Players Guide

If you are new to Vassal, visit vassalengine on the web for help.
Vassal is intended to be like playing a real game, so it does not have a
computer opponent, you either play solo or against a real opponent. You
can play by switching sides ‘live’ (hotseat) or sending files

Overview

Ragnarok is SPI’s simulation of the battle at the end of the world,
released in 1981 with Ares magazine #8

Startup

Select ‘play mode’, for a first game select ‘Start a new game offline’,
and Next> Select the ‘At Start’ setup, Next> Join as ‘observer’ to play
solo and click Finish. There are 2 sides available, Aesir and Jotun.

The game will open with the map on the screen. Click the red counter
icon to open the Deployment window. Jotun counters deploy onto the
Rainbow Bridge on the map.
Vassal will ask if you want to open a log file. Read the rules
(available at https://www.simpubs.org)

Toolbar

The first 2 buttons are for playing a logfile (back and forward) and are
greyed out. Visit the vassal site for more info on logs and saves The 2
arrows are for network game connections

FLAG (Sides)

The white flag is to retire, and is also used to switch sides in games
with sides active.
Sides are not enabled for counter control/visibility, but there are two
sides, Jotun and Aesir

COUNTER (Deployment)

Open the counter window by clicking the Fire icon. This has a set of
pieces. Drag pieces to the map according to the deployment rules.
Note: you can clone if you delete mistakenly, but the game has a defined
counter mix.

FOLDER

The folder icon opens the ‘Charts’ window, for Sequence of Play (SOP),
Combat Results Table (CRT), Terrain Effects Chart (TEC), Unit
Identification (UID) and other charts.

DEADPILE

Eliminated units will go here.

DICE

This icon ‘rolls’ a 6 sided dice and reports the result. 2d6 are also
available.

NOTE

Click this to make and see notes

TURN

A game turn counter, simple numeric [not required for Ragnarok]

CAMERA

Take a screen shot

MAP

The map icon opens (and closes) an overview map. The zoom buttons are
self explanatory. if you need help here, give up now and play checkers.
The monkey icon is hiding ;-) Use this to show/hide units on the map.

MOVEMENT

Counters are marked as moved on the map; this icon resets all to remove
the MOVED markings. Note: the endurance counters don’t really need this,
I’ll remove it some day…

Playing the Game

Vassal mimics a real game with cardboard pieces. This means that you can
make illegal moves, and do stupid, just like I do all the time.
The game has no computer player/AI, it is what you make it. Just pick up
the rules and start a cardboard battle. If you have played wargames it
will be very familiar to you

Pieces

Click the counter icon; it will open a window with a tab of the (very
few) counters and markers.
For movement, just click and drag a counter. For more, right click and a
menu pops up

-   Flip - turn the counter over, usually to a reduced side
-   Rotate CW/Rotate CCW - this turns the counter. In this template
    facing does not mean anything, counters can rotate in 6 directions.
-   Mark Moved - takes the MOVED tag on and off the counter
-   Movement Trail - this puts a line of movement on the map, can be
    useful
-   Show ZOC - shows the zone of control (6 hexes around)
-   Clone - copies a marker or counter
-   Delete - if you have mistakenly cloned or added the counter, delete
    it
-   Notes - opens a small notes window
-   Eliminated - sends the unit to the Deadpile (graveyard) page

Stacks

Hovering over will show you the stack contents.
Double click to expand or contract the stack Click on an individual
counter to select it and move it. You can use left and right arrow keys
to move up and down in the order

Scenarios

At Start has the endurance track and Heimdall deployed. There is a ‘Free
Setup’ save game, which is, of course, not a save game at all. To open
the pieces window, use CTRL-SHIFT-H.

Menu

-   File: Menu File Save Game and Save Game As lets you save the game.
    Simples.
    Other options relate to logs and open/close etc.

-   Tools: Refresh counter images (if changed) and some log management.

-   Help: This file and the readme are here, as well as links to Vassal
    guides and splash pages.

Release Notes

v1.2 first release

  Release        Notes
  -------------- ---------------------
  Module         ragnarok-v12.vmod
  Game           Ragnarok (SPI) 1981
  Version        1.2 release
  Last Updated   29-MAR-2024
  Created Date   01-JAN-2019
  Author         John Edwards
  Notes          n/a

Contact jzedward or visit simpubs with any comments or feedback
